SUNNY-CP 2.1
============

SUNNY-CP: a Parallel CP Portfolio Solver

sunny-cp [5] is a parallel parallel portfolio solver that allows to solve a
Constraint (Satisfaction/Optimization) Problem defined in the MiniZinc language.
It essentially implements the SUNNY algorithm described in [1][2][3] and extends
its sequential version [4] that attended the MiniZinc Challenge 2014 [6].
sunny-cp is built on top of state-of-the-art constraint solvers, including:
Choco, Chuffed, CPX, G12/LazyFD, G12/FD, G12/Gurobi, G12/CBC, Gecode, HaifaCSP,
iZplus, MinisatID, Opturion, OR-Tools. These solvers are not included by default
in sunny-cp, except for those already included in MiniZinc 2.0 (i.e., G12/CBC,
G12/LazyFD, and G12/FD). However, sunny-cp provides utilities for adding new
solvers to the portfolio and for customizing their settings (see below).

In a nutshell, sunny-cp relies on two sequential steps:

  1. PRE-SOLVING: consists in the parallel execution of a (maybe empty) static
     schedule and the neighborhood computation of underlying k-NN algorithm;

  2. SOLVING: consists in the parallel and cooperative execution of a number of
     the predicted solvers, selected by means of SUNNY algorithm.

The version 2.0 of sunny-cp solver won the gold medal in the open category of
MiniZinc Challenge 2015 [6]. This version is a minor improvement of sunny-cp 2.0
(see the CHANGELOG for more details).


AUTHORS
=======

sunny-cp is developed by Roberto Amadini (University of Bologna/Lab.Focus INRIA)
and Jacopo Mauro (University of Oslo). For any question or information, please
contact us at:

  amadini at cs.unibo.it

  jmauro  at ifi.uio.no


PREREQUISITES
=============

sunny-cp is tested on 64-bit machines running Ubuntu 12.04, and not yet fully
portable on other platforms. Some of the main requirements are:

+ Python 2.x
  https://www.python.org/

+ MiniZinc 2.x
  http://www.minizinc.org/

+ mzn2feat 1.x
  https://github.com/CP-Unibo/mzn2feat

+ psutil 2.x
  https://pypi.python.org/pypi/psutil


CONTENTS
========

+ bin       contains the executables of sunny-cp

+ docker    contains the utilities for installing sunny-cp with docker

+ kb        contains the utilities for the knowledge base of sunny-cp

+ src       contains the sources of sunny-cp

+ solvers   contains the utilities for the constituent solvers of sunny-cp

+ test      contains some MiniZinc examples for testing sunny-cp

+ tmp       is aimed at containing the temporary files produced by sunny-cp.


SOLVERS
=======

This package does not contain neither the sources and the binaries of the
constituent solvers, that should be installed separately. However, sunny-cp
provides utilities for adding new solvers to the portfolio and for customizing
their settings. Note that now there is no more a default portfolio: when not 
better specified, the default portfolio consists of the solvers defined in the 
sunny-cp/solvers directory. For more details, see the README file in the 
sunny-cp/solvers folder and the sunny-cp usage. A part from the basic portfolio 
constituted by the solvers already included in MiniZinc 2.0, sunny-cp has also
used other solvers:

+ Choco
  http://choco-solver.org/

+ Chuffed (not free)

+ CPX
  http://www.minizinc.org/g12distrib.html (see MiniZinc version 1.6)

+ G12/Gurobi (not free)

+ Gecode
  http://www.gecode.org/

+ HaifaCSP
  http://tx.technion.ac.il/~mveksler/HCSP/index.html

+ iZplus
  http://www.constraint.org/ja/izc_download.html

+ MinisatID
  http://dtai.cs.kuleuven.be/krr/software/minisatid

+ Opturion (not free)
  http://www.opturion.com

+ OR-Tools
  https://code.google.com/p/or-tools/

Chuffed and G12/Gurobi are not publicly available, and have been kindly granted
by NICTA Optimization Research Group of Melbourne (Australia). Note that CPX
solver has been included in the MiniZinc suite until version 1.6, and no
longer included from version 2.0. Opturion is an enhancement of CPX. If you are
interested in using these solvers, please contact directly their developers.

NOTE: sunny-cp is not responsible of buggy solvers. However, the user can check 
the soundness of a solution with the option --check-solvers.


BASIC INSTALLATION
==================

Once downloaded the sources, move into sunny-cp folder and run install script:

  sunny-cp$ bash install

This is a minimal installation script that checks the proper installation of
Python (and psutil), MiniZinc, mzn2feat. In addition, it checks the installation
of the constituent solvers (in the corresponding folder) and compiles all the
python sources of sunny-cp. If the installation is successful, the following
message will be printed on standard output:

  --- Everything went well!
  To complete sunny-cp installation just append <PATH_TO_SUNNY-CP>/sunny-cp/bin
  to the PATH environment variable.

Once the PATH variable is set, check the installation by typing the command:

  sunny-cp --help

for printing the help page. Note that the installation process will also create
the file src/pfolio_solvers.py containing an object for each installed solver.


INSTALLATION WITH DOCKER
========================

An alternative way to deploy sunny-cp is by using Docker (www.docker.com).
Assuming Docker is installed, the first step is running make_docker.py script in 
the sunny-cp/docker folder:

  sunny-cp/docker$ python make_docker.py [solver1,solver2,...,solverN]
  
where solver1,...,solverN is a list of the solvers to include in the portfolio.
Actually, this list should be a sublist of the aforementioned freely available 
solvers, i.e.:

  choco,g12cpx,g12lazyfd,g12fd,g12cbc,gecode,haifacsp,izplus,minisatid,ortools
 
The first solver of the specified list is assumed to be the backup solver. If no
solver is specified, the default list g12lazyfd,g12fd,g12cbc is set. 
The make_docker script generates a corresponding Dockerfile that can be used for
later building and executing the Docker image. In particular, if you are working
on a Linux platform, just type:

  sunny-cp/docker$ bash build_docker

for building the Docker image and creating the sunny-cp-docker. Then, assuming 
that the PATH environment variable points to sunny-cp/bin, you can run the 
sunny-cp-docker command for emulating the sunny-cp solver, e.g.:

  sunny-cp/test/examples$ sunny-cp-docker zebra.mzn

For more information, please see the Docker documentation at docs.docker.com


FEATURES
========

During the presolving phase (in parallel with the static schedule execution)
sunny-cp extracts a feature vector of the problem in order to apply the k-NN
algorithm for determining the solvers schedule to be run in the following
solving phase. By default, the feature vector is extracted by mzn2feat tool.
sunny-cp provides the sources of this tool: for its installation, decompress the
mzn2feat-1.1.2.tar.bz2 archive and follow the instruction in the README file of
that folder. The sources of mzn2feat extractor are also available at
https://github.com/CP-Unibo/mzn2feat. Moreover, the user can define its own
extractor by implementing a corresponding class in src/features.py


KNOWLEDGE BASE
==============

The SUNNY algorithm on which sunny-cp relies needs a knowledge base, that
consists of a folder containing the information relevant for the schedule
computation. Unlike the previous knowledge bases, that contained thousands of 
instances, now the default knowledge base is far smaller: it consists of 76 CSP 
instances and 318 COP instances coming from the MiniZinc challenges 2012--2015. 
However, the user has the possibility of defining its own knowledge bases. 
The default sunny-cp knowledge base is sunny-cp/kb/mznc1215. For more details, 
see the README file in sunny-cp/kb folder.


TESTING
=======

Although a full support for automatic testing is not yet implemented, in the
sunny-cp/test/examples folder there is a number of simple MiniZinc models.
You can run them individually, e.g., by typing:

  test/examples$ sunny-cp zebra.mzn

or alternatively you can test all the models of the folder by typing:

  test/examples$ bash run_examples

The run_examples script also produces output.log and errors.log files in the
test/examples folder, where the standard output/error of the tested models are
respectively redirected.


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
===============

We would like to thank the staff of the Optimization Research Group of NICTA
(National ICT of Australia) for allowing us to use Chuffed and G12/Gurobi, as
well as for granting us the computational resources needed for building and
testing sunny-cp.


REFERENCES
==========

  [1]  R. Amadini, M. Gabbrielli, and J. Mauro. SUNNY: a Lazy Portfolio Approach
       for Constraint Solving 2013. In ICLP, 2014.

  [2]  R. Amadini, M. Gabbrielli, and J. Mauro. Portfolio Approaches for
       Constraint Optimization Problems. In LION, 2014.

  [3]  R. Amadini, and P.J. Stuckey. Sequential Time Splitting and Bounds
       Communication for a Portfolio of Optimization Solvers. In CP, 2014.

  [4]  R. Amadini, M. Gabbrielli, and J. Mauro. SUNNY-CP: a Sequential CP
       Portfolio Solver. In SAC, 2015.

  [5]  R. Amadini, M. Gabbrielli, and J. Mauro. A Multicore Tool for Constraint 
       Solving. In IJCAI, 2015.
       
  [6]  MiniZinc Challenge webpage. http://www.minizinc.org/challenge.html
